Dev/dmapp (#25)
SkylineCommunications/Skyline.DataMiner.VisualStudioTemplates: working/templates/package-project/GettingStarted.md

Welcome to the Skyline DataMiner DevOps environment!  
This quick-start guide will help you get up and running.  
For more details and comprehensive instructions, please visit [DataMiner Docs](https://docs.dataminer.services/).

<!--#if (CreateDataMinerPackage)-->
## Creating a DataMiner Application Package

This project is configured to create a `.dmapp` file every time you build the project.  
Simply compile or build the project, and you will find the generated `.dmapp` in the standard output folder, typically the `bin` folder of your project.

When publishing, this project will become its own item on the online catalog.

## The DataMiner Package Project

This project is designed to create multi-artifact packages in a straightforward manner.

### Other DataMiner Projects in the Same Solution

Every **Skyline.DataMiner.SDK** project, except other DataMiner Package Projects, will by default be included within the `.dmapp` created by this project.  
You can customize this behavior using the **PackageContent/ProjectReferences.xml** file. This allows you to add filters to include or exclude projects as needed.

### Adding Content from the Catalog

> You can reference and include additional content from the catalog using the **PackageContent/CatalogReferences.xml** file provided in this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can reference and include additional content from the Catalog using the **PackageContent/CatalogReferences.xml** file provided in this project.
```

### Importing from DataMiner

> You can import specific items directly from a DataMiner agent:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import specific items directly from a DataMiner Agent:  
```

> 1. Connect to an agent via **Extensions > DIS > DMA > Connect**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Connect to an Agent via **Extensions > DIS > DMA > Connect**.
```

> 2. Once connected, you can import specific DataMiner artifacts.

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to be an actual step the user should carry out, but rather additional info about step 1. I'd therefore recommend to make this an unnumbered, indented sentence below step one, and to change the step below this to step 2.

3. Navigate to folders such as **PackageContent/Dashboards** or **PackageContent/LowCodeApps**, right-click, select **Add**, and choose **Import DataMiner Dashboard/LowCodeApp** or the equivalent.

## Execute Additional Code on Installation

Open the **$SCRIPTNAME$.cs** file to write custom installation code. Common actions include creating elements, services, or views.

**Quick Tip:** Type `clGetDms` in the `.cs` file and press **Tab** twice to insert a snippet that gives you access to the **IDms** classes, making DataMiner manipulation easier.

## Does Your Installation Code Need Configuration Files?

> You can add configuration files (e.g., `.json`, `.xml`) to the **SetupContent** folder, which can be accessed during installation.

Reviewer: We don't usually use a comma after "e.g." (house style), so while it's not wrong to use it, I'd recommend removing it here for the sake of consistency.

Author: Applied

Access them in your code using:
```csharp
string setupContentPath = installer.GetSetupContentDirectory();
```

<!--#else-->
## Enabling the Creation of a DataMiner Application Package

**OOPS!** This project is not configured to generate a `.dmapp` file.  
If you intended to create a `.dmapp` file, you may have set up the project incorrectly.

> Please consider the following options:

Author: Changed to bulleted list

1. Remove this project and create a new DataMiner Application Project with `.dmapp` generation enabled.
2. If you don’t require `.dmapp` creation, review your project setup to ensure it aligns with your goals.
<!--#endif-->

<!--#if (IsCatalogNoCICD)-->
## Publishing to the Catalog

This project was created with support for publishing to the DataMiner catalog.  
You can publish your artifact manually through Visual Studio or by setting up a CI/CD workflow.

### Manual Publishing

1. Obtain an **Organization Key** from [admin.dataminer.services](https://admin.dataminer.services/) with the following scopes:

>    - **Register catalog items**
>    - **Read catalog items**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Register Catalog items**
   - **Read Catalog items**
```

2. Securely store the key using Visual Studio User Secrets:
   - Right-click the project and select **Manage User Secrets**.
   - Add the key in the following format:

```json
{
  "skyline": {
    "sdk": {
      "catalogpublishtoken": "MyKeyHere"
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: This example should be indented at the same level as the text of line 76; otherwise you risk issues with the list numbering.

Author: Applied

3. Publish the package using the **Publish** option in Visual Studio.

**Recommendation:** For stable releases, consider using a CI/CD setup to run **dotnet publish** after passing quality checks.

<!--#elseif (IsCatalogBasicCICD)-->
## Publishing to the Catalog with Basic CI/CD Workflow

> This project includes a basic GitHub workflow for catalog publishing.  

Author: Applied

Follow these steps to set it up:

1. Create a GitHub repository and push your project.

> 2. The first workflow run may fail due to missing secrets. View the error details on the **Actions** page of your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the first workflow run fails because of missing secrets, check the error details on the **Actions** page of your repository and resolve the issues.
```

   - **Register catalog items**
   - **Read catalog items**

4. Add the key as a secret in your GitHub repository:
   - Navigate to **Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions** and create a secret named `DATAMINER_TOKEN`.
5. Re-run the workflow.

With this setup, any push to the main/master branch will generate a new pre-release version, using the latest commit message as the version description.

### Releasing a Specific Version

- Navigate to the **<> Code** tab in your repository.
- Select **Releases** from the right-hand menu.
- Draft a new release, select the desired version, and provide a description.

<!--#elseif (IsCatalogCompleteCICD)-->
## Publishing to the Catalog with Complete CI/CD Workflow

This project includes a comprehensive GitHub workflow that adheres to Skyline Communications' quality standards, including static code analysis, custom validation, and unit testing.

### Prerequisite:  
You need a **SonarCloud Organization**. If you don’t have one, you can create it [here](https://sonarcloud.io/create-organization).

### Steps:
1. Create a GitHub repository and push your project.  
   Note: For free SonarCloud accounts, your repository must be public.

> 2. The first workflow run may fail due to missing secrets and variables. Follow the error messages on the **Actions** tab to resolve each issue and re-run the workflow multiple times as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the first workflow run fails because of missing secrets and variables, check the error messages on the **Actions** tab to resolve each issue and re-run the workflow multiple times as needed.
```

|-----------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DATAMINER_TOKEN` | Secret  | Organization key for catalog publishing           | Obtain from [admin.dataminer.services](https://admin.dataminer.services/) and add it as a secret. |
| `SONAR_TOKEN`    | Secret  | Token for SonarCloud authentication               | Obtain from [SonarCloud Security](https://sonarcloud.io/account/security) and add it as a secret.  |
| `SONAR_NAME`     | Variable | SonarCloud project ID                             | Visit [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/projects/create), copy the project ID, and add it as a variable. |

### Releasing a Version

- Navigate to the **<> Code** tab in your repository.
- Select **Releases** from the right-hand menu.
- Draft a new release, select the desired version, and provide a description.

<!--#else-->
## Enabling Catalog Publishing

**OOPS!** This project was created without support for catalog publishing.  
If you intended to publish to the catalog, you may have set up the project incorrectly.

> Please consider the following options:

Author: Changed to bulleted list.
